APIv4 initial documentation (#126)
CleverCloud/documentation: content/openapiv4.md

---
title: "Clever Cloud APIv4 Reference"

> Description: "Complete reference documentation for the Clever Cloud APIv4. Includes methods and examples to automate deployments and orchestration."

Reviewer: this one neither

Author: I used the same as v2, I modify it ;)

type: "docs"
keywords: 
- openapi
- api
- reference
- endpoint
- v4
---
Clever Cloud provides a public REST API used by its own services and customers, known as `v2`. 
As our platform evolves, we're progresively moving to `/v4` endpoints, adding functionalities, with a more modern approach: 
```
https://api.clever-cloud.com/v4/
```

While we're still in the process of documenting it, you'll find the more useful enpoints and example requests in this page.

{{< callout type="info" >}}

> Each query response contains an `Api-Request-Id`. If you need help from our support team, it can help to provide it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each query response contains an `Sozu-Id. If you need help from our support team, it can help to provide it.
```

      "currency": "",
      "amount": float,
      "amount_formatted": "",
      "default_display": ""
    },
    "total_tax": {
      "currency": "",
      "amount": float,
      "amount_formatted": "",
      "default_display": ""
    },
    "category": "",
    "payment_provider": "",
    "transaction_id": "",
    "customer_order_id": ""
  },
  {...}
]
```

## Deployments
- `/v4/orchestration/organisations/{ownerId}/applications/{applicationId}/deployments`
- `/v4/orchestration/organisations/{ownerId}/applications/{applicationId}/deployments/{deploymentId}`
- Type: `GET`

Example response, for each deployment:
```bash
[
  {
    "id": "",
    "ownerId": "",
    "applicationId": "",
    "startDate": "",
    "state": "",
    "steps": [
      {
        "state": "",
        "date": ""
      },
      {
        "state": "",
        "date": ""
      },
      {
        "state": "",
        "date": ""
      }
    ],
    "version": {
      "commitId": ""
    },
    "origin": {
      "action": "",
      "cause": "",
      "source": "",
      "authorId": "",
      "constraints": [
        ""
      ],
      "priority": ""
    },
    "hasDedicatedBuild": boolean
  },
  {...}
]
```

## Instances

> - `/v4/orchestration/organisations/{ownerId}/applications/{applicationId}/instances`

Reviewer: We got an ongoing discussion on this instances calls, it's not stable at all

Example response, for each instance:
```bash
[
  {
    "id": "",
    "ownerId": "",
    "applicationId": "",
    "deploymentId": "",
    "name": "",
    "flavor": "",
    "index": int,
    "state": "",
    "creationDate": "",
    "deletionDate": "",
    "network": {
      "ip": "",
      "port": int
    },
    "isBuildVm": boolean
  },
  {...}
]
```

## Load Balancers
- `/v4/load-balancers/organisations/{ownerId}/applications/{applicationId}/load-balancers/default`
- Type: `GET`

Example response:
```bash
[
  {
    "id": "",
    "name": "",
    "zoneId": "",
    "dns": {
      "cname": "",
      "a": []
    }
  }
]
```

## Logs
- `/v4/logs/organisations/{ownerId}/applications/{applicationId}/logs`
- Type: `GET`

Answers with logs in a SSE (Server-Sent Events) stream. You can use the optional parameters to filter it:

| Parameter      | Type     | Comment            |
| :---           | :---     | :---               | 
| `since`        | `string` | ISO 8601 formatted |
| `until`        | `string` | ISO 8601 formatted |
| `limit`        | `int64 ` | Minimum: `1`       |
| `filter`       | `string` |                    |
| `instanceId`   | `string` |                    |

> | `deploymentId` | `string` |                    |

Reviewer: "since".as(stringToOffsetDateTime).optional,
"until".as(stringToOffsetDateTime).optional,
"limit".as[Int].optional,
"deploymentId".as(DeploymentID.stringUnmarshaller).optional,
"instanceId".as(InstanceID.stringUnmarshaller).repeated,
"filter".optional,
"service".as[String].repeated, (special all value and default to "bas", "bas-deploy")
"field".as[String].repeated,
"throttleElements".as[Int].withDefault(ovd.logs.sse.throttleElements),
"throttlePerInMilliseconds".as[Long].withDefault(ovd.logs.sse.throttlePer.toMillis)
